---
isBasedOnUrl: null
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
title: ''
dateModified: '2015-09-21T19:34:52.208Z'
datePublished: '2015-09-21T19:35:01.825Z'
sourcePath: _posts/2015-09-16-0887aed8-54fa-425d-80d1-397a0acd95b8.md
published: true
tags:
  - ''
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
url: 0887aed8-54fa-425d-80d1-397a0acd95b8/index.html
_type: Article

---
# Oil 

It's no secret America is addicted to Oil, most of which we import. What's not well known is that we have the resources to replace oil with natural gas, methanol, or ethanol based fuels which are produced at home. The problem is there are powerful interests keeping petroleum based cars and refueling stations as the only convenient option for most Americans.

## Proposed Solutions

One solution is the [Open Fuel Standards Act of 2011\.][0] It simply says that all cars built or sold in america will have the Flex Fuel ability. 

## Status

The proposal has been introduced into committee every session of Congress since 2006\. The bill hasn't left a single committee for a vote. 

Why? 

Members of the committees get campaign contributions from Big Oil.

* United States House Committee on Energy & Commerce
* United States House Committee on Ways & Means 
* United States Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation 

The United States government is not only failing to pass laws to solve our problems, but also making the system worse by instituting regulations that keep the monopoly in place. Today, illegal for commercial operations to install flex fuel kits and pouring anything in your car not specifically designated by the manufacturer is technically illegal, and re programming your car to accept other fuels, etc. is also illegal. 

[0]: http://thegrid.ai/laissez-faire/